---
layout: page
title: About
tags: [about, electronut]
modified: 2014-12-10
comments: false
image:
  feature: header.jpg
---

**electronut Labs** is the creation of **Mahesh Venkitachalam** -
  programmer, writer, photographer and electronics hacker based in
  Bengaluru, India. We are a small business focused on creating
  unique, useful electronics hardware and educational content for
  Makers worldwide.

## Genesis

The madness started in 8th grade. Someone told me that it was possible
to cut an LED and make a photocell out of it. Having no idea what that
meant, I dragged my dad to the narrow row of electronics shops near
the Thrissur railway station in Kerala. Over the next 3 years, I
pretty much could think of only circuits. I didn't understand much of
the theory, but that didn't stop me from learning soldering and
building a whole bunch of circuits ranging from the "clap switch" to a
power amplifier. My dad was very supportive of my hobby, and his only
concern seemed to be that I was "straining my eyes soldering
microscopic components". It seemed obvious that I would pursue a
career in electronics. But as fate would have it, I went on to study
Metallurgical Engineering, then Materials Science and finally ended up
with a career in Software Development.


I was introduced to programming in 1991, during my first year as an
undergrad at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. The CS101
course lectures were conducted in a huge auditorium. We never missed
these lectures. It was air-conditioned, and the professor dimmed the
lights at the start of the lecture. This was a much better place to
sleep than the dingy hostel room. The course required us to write
programs using Fortran 77 in a computer building, on consoles
connected to a mainframe we called “Cyber”. The Cyber building was
also air conditioned, and to escape from the sweltering heat of
Bombay, all you had to do is find the right nook to hide yourself
within Cyber's maze of cubicles, monitors and rectangular slabs
bristling with lights. You were safe as long as you avoided the prying
eyes of the security guard trained to eject loitering undergrad
riffraff from the building. The other grave danger you faced in Cyber
was that someone would steal your footwear, which you were required to
leave outside the building. I don't recall finishing a single
assignment for the course successfully, and my final project, a
ghastly implementation of the “Snakes and Ladders” game, left a
lasting impression on the examiner. This experience should have made
me hate programming for good. Thankfully, that did not happen. I
eventually discovered the joy of programming on my own by fiddling
around with “Turbo C” graphics on 386 PCs at the tiny computer lab in
the Metallurgical Engineering department.

Now, years later, I am renewing my passion in electronics and
programming. This time, I am re-learning electronics from both
directions - bottom level hardware (designing sensor circuits), and
top level software - programming these tiny computers that talk to
sensors. At the same time, I am learning PCB design, and new
manufacturing techniques like laser-cutting and 3D printing. What an
age we live in! The DIY-ers never had a more powerful set of tools at
their disposal.

I have established **electronut.in** to share my journey with
you. Hope you enjoy your visit!

![portrait]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/portrait_small.jpg)
